The Project Gutenberg eBook of Her country, by Mary Raymond Shipman
Andrews

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Her country

Author: Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews

Release Date: June 30, 2023 [eBook #71078]

Language: English

Credits: The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
         https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
         generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HER COUNTRY ***





                      BOOKS BY MARY R. S. ANDREWS

                 PUBLISHED BY CHARLES SCRIBNER’S SONS


The Eternal Feminine. Illustrated        _net_ $1.50
August First                             _net_ $1.00
The Eternal Masculine. Illustrated       _net_ $1.50
The Militants. Illustrated               _net_ $1.50
Bob and the Guides. Illustrated          _net_ $1.50
Her Country                              _net_   .50
Old Glory                                _net_   .50
The Counsel Assigned                     _net_   .50
The Courage of the Commonplace           _net_   .50
The Lifted Bandage                       _net_   .50
The Perfect Tribute                      _net_   .50




                              HER COUNTRY

                                   BY

                      Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews

                                NEW YORK

                        Charles Scribner’s Sons
                                  1918




             _Copyright, 1918, by Charles Scribner’s Sons_

          _Copyright, 1918, by the Butterick Publishing Co._

                         _Published May, 1918_

                            [Illustration]




                              HER COUNTRY


Out on the edge of the city were large places, screened from the road
by hedges which had been fifty, a hundred years sometimes, in the
growing. Behind one such lay a sunshiny garden, lovely in the June
Sunday morning. Down the gravel of a path a girl in a white frock
walked, swinging a shallow basket in which scissors rattled from side
to side. The girl kept a critical eye, walking, on the wall of Dorothy
Perkins roses which, growing over a tall broken lattice, separated the
garden from the grounds next door.

“You adorable nobodies, you’re like pink music,” she addressed the
million little blooms, and halted, erect and poised, glorying in
flowers and sunlight.

Two men watched her. “A colt,” spoke the older, smiling lazily.

“I don’t know. I like long, adolescent lines. You don’t see them after
eighteen. Honor’s seventeen. I like her figure.”

“Figure! As much figure as a string.” The older man leaned back in his
wicker chair and gazed through half-closed lids at the girl, much like
a tall, thin angel of Botticelli, shimmering white against shimmering
pink.

With that she turned and came lightly towards them across the grass.
“What do you think? Is there anything here fit to send McIvor?”

“Why it’s all lovely, Honor--our rose-garden,” the boy said, looking
at her in surprise. “Fit to send him! Why, the Mannering rose-garden’s
famous. Has been for a hundred years--isn’t it a hundred years, father?”

“Near enough.” Eric Mannering, the fifth, knocked the ashes from his
cigar and considered the end of it with absorption. “What’s the matter
with the roses, Honor?” He was half amused, half bored. “Why aren’t
they good enough for--McIvor, the singer?”

“Nothing’s good enough for McIvor, the singer,” the girl shot at him,
quoting the half-contemptuous tone as well as the words. “The roses
used to be wonderful, of course. You say they were a show when you were
a youngster. But--why, you know better than I do, dad, that roses
are an expensive accomplishment. The fine ones are run out; it’s only
the hardy ordinary ones that live through neglect. They’re sweet and
adorable, but they’re--well, commonplace.”

Mannering took a puff at his cigar and regarded his daughter. “McIvor
should not be too fastidious in roses. His normal occupation was as a
mill-hand.”

“He’s a messenger from heaven now.” The girl’s wide eyes flamed at the
indifferent, half-open eyes of the man. “He’s--he’s--” she stammered
with wrath. “He’s one of the great ones of the earth. He has, perhaps,
the most wonderful voice in the world.”

Mannering laughed easily. “Yes? Even that doesn’t bowl me over
entirely. A professional musician! An ex-mill-hand! And my daughter
searches her garden for flowers worthy of him! It strikes me as
amusing.”

“Don’t badger the kid, father,” the young man remonstrated, and as he
rose and walked a few steps, it was visible that he was very lame. “You
know how keen she is about music.”

Eric Mannering reflected again deeply, on the subject, apparently, of
the end of his boot. Quite at his leisure he announced: “The Mannerings
have always been fond of music. And good at it. But Honor is the first
who has wanted to go into the trade.”

Honor rippled young laughter. “Dad, you can be nasty when you want
to,” she commented, and dropped on the warm earth and sat there,
cross-legged, like a child, like a faun, looking up at him with
laughter in her gray eyes. Her fair, loose hair blew about her face.
“Now, father,” she admonished him, pushing a strand of pale gold out
of her eyes, “you’ve got to be good. You’ve got to be guided by your
intelligent children, by Eric and me. Especially by me. You know that
you’re not built to fight the world. You’re beautiful, and entrancing
to talk to, and finished and accomplished beyond words. But you can’t
do a thing with money except squander it--that’s the plain truth. And
you’ve squandered and squandered, till we’re all in a hole. We’re in
debt, and the rose-garden isn’t kept up, and the house needs painting
and window-shades, and Eric had to sell mother’s rubies to pay his
way through law school, and now I’ve come along with a voice that
people say is worth money. And there’s not ten cents to develop it.
And I _will_ develop it. I _will_ have my chance. If my voice is what
Stroble says, two thousand now--next year and the year after--would
mean huge sums. The real voices make--almost anything. A hundred
thousand a year--almost anything! I could do all the things that are
needed--here.” She stared about at the lovely, neglected garden, at the
long, low, stone house with its vague air of lack of care. “It’s silly
to hamper me, not to help me, when it’s on the cards that I could make
a fortune for us all.”

“I hate to hear you talk in that commercial way, Honor,” her brother
flashed at her. “You’ve a gift and you’ve a right to want to use it.
But to think of art in terms of money--almost wholly in terms of money,
as you do! It’s degrading. Also, I’m the one to retrieve the family
fortunes. I’m older and a man. It’s up to me. Next year I’ll be through
law school and in practise, and you’ll see! I’ll work like ten horses.
I’ll make good. I must. And I’ll take care of you and father.”

Mannering, his cigar in his long fingers, stretched his arms to their
width with a yawn. “Thank you both so much,” he said. He laughed.
“But do I look decrepit? And who owns Garden Court? I or you two? Yet
it’s beautiful to see such energy with such youth. And money-making
power--though a bit visionary. Eric, do you happen to know any young
lawyers who have heaped up immediate fortunes at their profession? I
don’t. Honor’s scheme seems to me more businesslike. Only two small ifs
between her and a hundred thousand a year. _If_ she has a marvellous
voice, and _if_ she can get it trained. If I consent is not in the
catalogue, is it, Honor?”

The girl sitting before him on the ground, long arms folded, long legs
crossed, shook her head. “Not a bit, dad,” she assured him, and though
her eyes danced, she meant it.

Mannering smiled lazily. “Odd how I don’t influence my offspring,” he
commented impersonally. “I didn’t want Eric to sell those rubies, but
he would. And I suppose that length of mediæval saint, lined throughout
with pure paganism, squatting on the lawn like a toad--I suppose Honor
will do exactly as her mature judgment decides. Won’t you, Honor?”

“Uh-huh,” the girl agreed.

“There’s one thing--you won’t get two thousand dollars out of me, or
one thousand, for a musical education, for I haven’t got it. What are
you going to do about that?”

“I’m going to earn it.” The young lips set tight as her gray glance
shot up to the man’s lazy eyes.

“How?”

“A job.”

“What?”

“Secretary for Mr. Barron.”

Mannering whistled softly. He smiled, amused. “When?”

“Monday.”

“Nonsense.” Mannering scratched a match with deliberation and lighted
a fresh cigar. “You know nothing about business.”

“But I do. You know I’ve been in town three days a week for six months.”

“Yes.”

“I told you I was studying. You didn’t bother to ask what I was
studying. I was at a business college. I’ve taken my course.”

“The devil you say!”

“Uh-huh.” She sprang lightly to her feet. “Mr. Barron knew about it. I
told you I had a secret with him and you took no interest. Now--will
you be good? I’m going to make money. And save it, for myself. And in
two years I’ll have enough to go to New York and study music, and make
my own career, and no thanks to anybody.”

Mannering stopped smoking and stared again at the polished toe of his
russet shoe. He was silent for a long minute; then he laughed. “The
whole scheme is distasteful to me,” he stated in pleasant, even tones.
“But I don’t see that I can prevent it. I won’t squabble. I can’t stand
family quarrels, but I’m not proud of what you’ve done. There has been
an Honor Mannering in this house for a century, but never an Honor
Mannering in a business college. Business! Secretary to the head of a
knitting-mill! Honor Mannering! Can’t you feel the grotesqueness, the
sordidness of it?”

“Not a scrap, dad,” answered the girl blithely. “Of course, I’d rather
go at the music now, and leave out the business. But I can’t, so why
bother? Mr. Barron’s giving me a thousand a year if I make good. And
I will make good. I’ll make so good that I think he’ll give me more
the second year. Don’t you see, father--I’ve _got_ to have money!
Even--music is just for that. I’m so sick of debt and pretending and
keeping up appearances--having a car and a chauffeur and fine clothes,
and skimping on meals and the servants’ wages and letting the house go
to pieces! It’s demoralizing. You won’t make money; Eric can’t, for
ever so long. I’ve _got_ to. And I’ve this voice which has got to do it
for me. You see?”

“Not I,” announced Mannering with a shrug. “No woman of my house ever
found it incumbent on her before to make money.”

“Honor,” demanded the boy, “is that why you’re taking flowers to
McIvor? You’re not--trying to work him?”

The girl laughed, tossed up her head defiantly. “If he should hear me
sing--and say to himself: ‘That’s a good voice; it’s the girl next
door; can I help her develop that voice?’ what harm’s that? Eric, how
horrid you are to pin me! I dare say--when I said I’d bring some roses
for McIvor--when he came to the Barrons from the hospital--why--I’m
not ashamed if I did think of that, partly. That he might help about
my voice. Why shouldn’t he? Musicians are glad to discover a new big
voice. So I shall sing in the garden if I please. And if McIvor hears
me and asks me to sing for him--who knows what might happen? Now I’m
going to get the best roses we have. And I’ll sing too, if I choose.
Too bad he’s not there yet; he can’t hear me.”

She ran across the grass with the confident ease of a boy, and
suddenly, as she stood again at the rose-hedge her voice, full, strong,
effortless, filled all the air with jubilant music.

She had made a mistake. McIvor was there. From the hospital in the city
where his valuable throat had been under treatment for a week, the
Barrons’ big car had brought him to the Barrons’ house an hour ago. Ten
years back the great musician was spending his days shifting machinery
in Henry Barron’s knitting-mill, unconscious of the Golconda mine
waiting, unused, in his voice. He sang in the noon-hour, sometimes,
for his mates, and on a day Barron heard him. Barron, music lover,
philanthropist, and not ignorant, recognized the gift of his workman
as remarkable, and for love of music and of mankind gave the beautiful
voice a chance, and found that it was a great voice. Between the two
men had grown a friendship. When McIvor’s throat got troublesome it
was natural that Barron should arrange with the famous specialist who
ruled over the hospital in his city, and natural that as soon as the
operation was safely done McIvor should come to Barron’s house for his
convalescence.

Carefully covered from even the June breezes, luxurious on a wide divan
among pillows, he lay now on the gallery and revelled in the soft air
and flowers and country stillness, and considered thoughtfully, as he
often did, the contrast of his early life with this, for McIvor liked
all things lovely, and never forgot who had opened the gates of such
a world to him. His beauty-loving eyes lingered on the tall lattice
all but hidden with extravagant masses of Dorothy Perkins roses. The
lattice ran for two hundred yards, a wall of glory, and that it was
broken here and there counted unto it for righteousness to McIvor.
That gave atmosphere, history. Anybody could have a new lattice. As he
regarded the large hole approvingly, through it suddenly floated the
music of heaven. The singer, tingling in every temperamental nerve,
regarded it so.

“My God!” whispered McIvor reverently.

It seemed nothing less than the touch of a divine hand that after
his hideous week of suffering he should alight in this lovely place,
cradled in peace, and music should come to him through a wall of
roses. It was one of his own songs she was singing, one of the simple,
hackneyed, undying Scotch melodies which his mother had taught him
thirty years ago by the Firth of Tay, to which he went back gladly
still from difficult operatic work of which he had come to be past
master. He lifted himself on his elbow among the pillows, and his face
was brilliant.

    “Maxwelton’s braes are bonnie,
    Where early fa’s the dew.”

The voice brooded among the low notes, clearly, happily. It went on:

    “An’ ’twas there that Annie Laurie
    Gie’d me her promise true.”

McIvor waited, anxious to see what would happen when the air jumped
inches of scale.

    “Gie’d me her promise true!
    Which ne’er forgot shall be!
    An’ for bonnie Annie Laurie--”

The high notes floated to him, full and clean, and then dropped
deliciously to the croon of the world-old love-song.

    “I’d lay me down and dee.”

McIvor, leaning on his elbow, revelling in the flooding sounds,
frowned. He shook his head. “It’s a pity,” he murmured, and then
shouted, “Henry--Henry!” He shouted at the top of his lungs.

Henry Barron, reading inside, dropped his magazine and dashed through
the open door. “What in the name of heaven’s the matter? You’re not
ill?”

McIvor did not smile. “Ill--no. Who’s that singing?”

“Oh!” Barron looked relieved. “Now see here, old man--you’re there to
rest, not to get excited. Dr. Thomas said you were to do no talking or
even thinking for two hours.”

“Dr. Thomas go to the devil. That voice--who is it?”

“Little Honor Mannering, next door. It’s a fine voice--yet----”

“Exactly,” McIvor caught him up. “Something lacking. But a great music
machine, the throat that’s doing that peaches and cream. I want her to
sing for me. I want to see what’s the trouble--why that voice isn’t a
miracle. Can you get her to----”

Barron was looking into the sunlight of his drive. “Here she comes,” he
said.

The white, tall, thin figure was moving, facile of movement as the
voice, up the broad gravel; the shallow basket, rioting color, swept
casually back and forth in the girl’s hand. Barron went down the steps.

“For Mr. McIvor,” she called, swinging the mass of reds and pinks at
him as she came. “I wish they were better. They’re all we have, but
they’re only common roses.”

“The sweetest kind,” said Barron, and the girl stood gazing at him, her
eyes shining with the romance of bringing flowers to a hero.

“When’s he coming?” she demanded. “I’m going to stand in our garden and
sing and sing till he asks me to do ‘Carmen’ for him. Do tell him to,
Mr. Barron. When’s he coming?”

“He’s here,” some one spoke from the gallery, back of the flower-boxes.
The girl stood rooted. “And ‘Carmen’ has been sung by worse voices.
Seldom better.”

“Oh,” groaned Barron, “he ought not to be stirred up; come and see him,
then, but don’t stay over a minute.”

The girl came, breathless, shy a bit, but blissful.

“To-morrow morning, then, you’ll sing for him,” said Barron three
minutes later. “And now go away, my dear, for he mustn’t get tired.”

In the Barron drawing-room, while McIvor’s secretary played an
accompaniment, the girl stood next morning and sang.

McIvor lay outside among his pillows and stared at the tossing pink
veil clothing the broken lattice. The girl sang as confidently as any
bird in a tree, taking the difficult changes and the trying high notes
without any effort. Her voice was astonishing in its power. McIvor
looked at her as she came smiling through the door.

“You’d do for a church organ,” he said. “Where does all that noise
come from, you wisp of a child? Turn sideways.” She whirled, laughing.
“I see. You fooled me. You’ve got the deep chest of a prima donna.
Healthy, aren’t you?”

She nodded. “As strong as my brother. Never ill since measles. I can
run up-hill and not get winded.”

“You’re fit,” said McIvor. The girl looked at him, waited.

In a moment: “You’d be awfully good--if you’d tell me about my voice,”
she brought out, and flushed. The surface hardness which she had forced
on herself did not go deep yet. Quickly she went on, and her young face
grew oddly keen. “You see--Mr. McIvor--I’ve _got_ to make money. And
I’ve been told--my voice was--good for it. Not a little money--lots! I
hate--getting along--being hard up. If you’d say--that I’ve got a real
voice----”

McIvor drew his brows together. “Make money! And you seventeen!” he
said as if to himself, but his eyes were stern. “Miss Mannering, you
are going the wrong way to be an artist. Art is an exacting mistress.
The price she asks for success is one’s heart. If ye cannot give
that, if ye cannot love music for music’s sake”--McIvor dropped into
Scotchness at odd times; it was a sign of strong feeling--“ye’ll not
be great. Ye certainly hae a fine organ for singin’; it’s a grand
machine God has gi’en ye. But I know now what’s troublin’ me about your
voice--the soul’s not there. An’ gi’en ye persist in wantin’ money
first, the soul will not find its way in. Ye’ll be no true singer. It’s
mechanical, that lovely big voice of ye, and it’ll move no man. What
the true singer wants is to stir the hearts of people and send them
awa’ to help the world, because his music has helped them. Would na’ ye
like to do that?”

Honor’s soft mouth was firm. “No,” she said. “I don’t care. I want
their money.” McIvor shook his head.

The girl stared at him. She was fearless and obstinate. Not easily
did she let go a purpose. “Mr. McIvor,” she said at last, “you don’t
understand. I’ve _got_ to make money. And my voice is my one way. Thank
you for listening. You know everything, and I very little, but--people
who can judge have told me I could do a lot with my voice--and I’m
going to. You say yourself it’s a good--machine. I’ve--I’ve--” She was
half sobbing with angry distress. Yet she was determined. “I’ve planned
my career, and I’ll stick to it. I’ll succeed. I’ll make lots of money.
You’ll see.”

Suddenly she whirled and, springing down the steps, ran full tilt
across the lawn to a break in the lattice, and dropping to the ground,
slid through like a rabbit.

McIvor looked up at Barron. The two men laughed a little, and then the
musician sighed. “The poor baby,” he said. “She’s got so much, and
she’s likely goin’ to throw it away. Money! At seventeen! An’ she with
the face of a seraph and a voice out of ten million!”

“Perhaps she’ll grow up. She’s only a baby,” Barron considered,
and went on to explain a bit to the other how things were at the
Mannerings, and the influences that had shaped the motherless girl.

“If,” said McIvor, “she has the right stuff, life will come along some
day with a big emotion, and money and such trash will go smash. And the
world will get one of its great music-makers. But a singer without a
soul is no good.”

Two years after the McIvor episode the Mannering household had
changed little outwardly. But young Eric had been now for a year a
practising lawyer, with a beginning of a reputation already, and Honor,
secretary to Henry Barron, president of the Empire Knitting Mills,
was a capitalist. She had fifteen hundred dollars salted away in a
savings-bank.

“When it’s two thousand I’ll bolt for New York,” she told Barron, “and
in six months from that I’ll be a success. You’ll see. Stroble says my
voice is better and better.”

About that time she awoke with a start to a huge movement in the world;
the world was swaying on its foundations, and she in her self-centred
little orbit suddenly was shaken. America was at war. On a day it
came to her what war meant. It was Eric, chafing at his lameness, his
helplessness to fight, Eric burning with patriotism, who roused her.
The boy had developed into a speaker of promise, and was being used at
a variety of meetings. One day an older speechmaker said to him:

“Make them sing something before you begin. It limbers an audience and
focusses its attention. It does your first five minutes’ work for you.”

“Honor, do you want to go with me and sing at a factory meeting
to-morrow at noon? I want a verse of ‘America’ to stir the meeting up
before I speak.”

“Why, yes,” the girl agreed easily. “I can get off. And it’s good
advertisement. My voice will be known a bit.”

“Young pig!” The brother apostrophized her. “Isn’t it in you to
consider your flag?”

Honor reflected. “I don’t think so,” she decided with honesty. “Lots of
people are doing things for the flag. I’m glad to have ’em. Me, I’ve
got my voice and my career; that’s all I can attend to. I’m like a
horse, capable of only one idea at a time.”

“Isn’t it in you,” interjected her father, unhurried, soft-voiced,
“to consider your breeding? Your family traditions? A daughter of the
Mannerings of Garden Court--singing to factory-hands! My word! the race
is degenerating.”

“Not at all, dad. It’s improving. Family traditions don’t cut any ice,”
remarked Honor tersely. “If Eric and I bothered with them we’d get
nowhere.”

“For Eric it’s permissible,” Mannering stated. “It’s a statesmanlike
accomplishment to make speeches. But you--entertaining workmen!
Hideous! I suppose if I definitely objected it wouldn’t make any
difference.”

“Don’t definitely object, dear child,” Honor adjured her father. “You
know you’re not fitted to handle Eric and me. But we do hate to go
bang into your theories. So put ’em on a high shelf out of our reach,
beautiful one. They don’t go with us at all, but they’re simply lovely
on you.”

Eric Mannering laughed, not ill-pleased. It was comfortable to be
assured that it was of no use trying to influence these handsome
and unmanageable children of his. It would have disturbed his placid
laziness to argue. “I can’t understand,” he considered, “how people in
general control their young. I never could.” And with entire amiability
he let it go at that.

“Your brother makes a corking speech, Miss Mannering.” She was driving
next day with Eric and three other men, politicians, across the city to
the great motor-factory.

“He told me he did,” Honor answered, her gray eyes dancing. And the men
laughed in a big chorus.

“She’s a young infidel,” Eric asserted, laughing, too, “and has no
respect for age or genius. If I could once stir her with a speech
I’d consider I’d made a real hit. I don’t believe she knows what
the Liberty Loan means, and as for the country, she takes no more
responsibility for it than a squirrel up a tree.”

“Not a patriot, Miss Mannering?” asked one of the men. “I’m surprised,
with your family record--your grandfather the ambassador, and your
great-grandfather the governor.”

“I don’t believe I particularly belong to my family,” the girl
reflected. “I don’t care about their record. If I can make my own way
with my voice--make money--that’s all I want. I’m too busy with that to
bother much about the country, you see.”

And the men laughed again, not disapprovingly, because of her beauty
and her youth, and thought Mannering’s young sister charmingly
democratic.

The car sped along miles of city, through streets which Honor had never
known existed, and came to the Black-Lewis Factory, and turned into a
large bare yard between buildings. Around the walls stood hundreds of
men, marshalled compactly. The men in the car got out and shook hands
with two or three who seemed to be in charge.

Then, “Ready, kid,” Eric said to her. “Stand up in the car.” Honor
caught her breath; she was frightened a little, unexpectedly. She was
not used to audiences; but she stood in the tonneau of the car as Eric
directed, tall and slim like a flower, and looked gravely, with a
sudden shy dignity, at the observing faces of five hundred working men.

“Now, Honor--‘America.’”

The girl’s eyes lifted from all those eyes regarding her, lifted high
to avoid that trying many-barrelled regard, and with that she caught
a flash, from a building, of a flag tossing bright colors against the
sky. To her astonishment a thrill caught her. “Isn’t it in you to
consider your flag?” Eric had asked. There it was, the flag that had
guarded her waking and sleeping all her life; it was in danger; enemies
were waiting to dishonor it, to tear it down; suddenly her whole
vigorous, fresh being rose to it in warmth and in loyalty. The flag!
America! Into the dusty air, upward, the full notes poured:

    “My country, ’tis of thee,
    Sweet land of liberty,
    Of thee I sing!”

The girl sang, and the grimy, tired men, listening, felt, each one,
something that had been hard softening inside of him, something catch
in his throat, a contraction around the eyes. Eric watched, well
pleased.

“Will you all join in the second verse?” he spoke.

Again the girl lifted the strong and sweet tones, and into them were
gathered, following, not obscuring the volume of her voice, half a
thousand voices of men, rolling sweet thunder through the buildings
where only the hum of machinery, on other days, filled the air.

“It’s good dope. It works to a charm,” Eric commented silently, as the
big music ended and the ranks of men stood touched, open-souled, ready
for an impression.

He lifted himself to the running-board of the car and the one halting
step laid a claim on every man there before he said a word. This chap
could not fight; fate had tied him with lameness, but he was doing
the best he could for his country. One read his speeches every day in
the papers. His sister looked at him, proud of his height and beauty
and finished accent, and the straight, strong English which came
from his lips, proudest of all of an intangible something which she
felt, and which all these men felt, the secret of the charm of young
Eric Mannering. It was an unphrased assertion that he and they were
brothers in a cause so large that all differences of caste were straws
on an ocean. Eric Mannering, the sixth, grandson of an ambassador,
great-grandson of a governor, with his air of race, his speech of
breeding, cared most to be what all these workmen were--American. He
talked as an American to Americans, and he talked from an absolute
sincerity, and the trained brain and speech which were vehicles for his
words were good, to him, because they might serve the cause of America.
By some force of reaction both the Mannering children were democrats,
and as the brother spoke the sister approved. Yet she did not listen
intelligently at first. Eric was saying things about a good investment,
four per cent only, but safe as the granite hills. A good investment.
It did not interest her. She was not going to buy bonds. She was going
to New York to learn to sing, to make a fortune with her voice. But
listen--Eric was talking about--the flag. Still shaken with the thrill
of leading those five hundred deep voices, shaken with the tremendous
meaning of the words she had sung, still startled with that unexpected
wind which had swept her upward into the colors against the sky, as
Eric spoke she caught her breath and listened. And behold his words
were a bugle-call. This was what the papers meant by Eric’s power of
stirring audiences. Rebellious, half angry, she realized that he was
stirring her. The papers had been full of the patriotic duty of buying
Liberty Bonds; she knew that public men were urging the people, rich
and poor, to put their savings into the loan, to help the country raise
money to use for the war. The campaign left her cold. She had saved
fifteen hundred dollars in two strenuous years for a purpose. She
meant to use it for that purpose. She had no intention of side-tracking
any of it in Liberty Bonds. She was clear about that. But, listen.
Eric in that appealing voice of his, whose unconscious power came, she
thought always, from the long suffering of his lameness, was talking
about the country--our country--America. The land about which she and
the five hundred men had been singing, America needed their money,
Eric was saying, for her very life. The girl listened. _She_ was going
to New York; that was settled; she hoped Eric would influence these
men to put their savings into Liberty Bonds; it was good; it was
public-spirited; people ought to do it, probably, but not she. She had
a fixed purpose, and it would be silly to let it go. The girl was
tenacious. Not for one speech of Eric’s would she change her two years’
decision. Yet a seed of discomfort was springing in her mind. Eric’s
voice, with its sincerity, its throb of old pain, flowed on.

“Do you realize, men, what it means that the country shall have money
to carry on this war? Suppose you lived in a street at the end of which
was a dangerous river. Suppose you lived two doors from the wall which
guarded that river. Suppose the river was high and threatening to break
through, and the family next door was tired out building up the wall.
Suppose it was certain that if the river broke, all your city would
be destroyed. Would you or wouldn’t you drop work and play and turn
anything, everything, into material to build up that wall? The river
is Germany, the house next door is England and France--the Allies. The
wall is mostly England’s fleet. It’s England’s fleet that has protected
us from invasion for three years. As sure as we are here to-day, just
so surely Germany will invade America if she can starve out England
and make her give up that fleet. We are all nestling behind England’s
fleet. We’ve got to see that England isn’t starved; we’ve got to help
her fight. She deserves it of us if we were in no peril at all, because
she has fought our battle for three years--but we’re in deadly peril.
This is our cause--America’s. Our government has got to have money to
feed England and to care for our soldiers who are going across--now--to
fight for us. It is for our own boys, our good American flesh and
blood that the government asks you to buy these bonds. So that they
will not be cold and hungry, and short of guns and ammunition to do our
fighting. Let us--who cannot go----”

Eric’s voice faltered, and the girl felt the shock of sympathy through
the audience like a blow. He cleared his throat and smiled boyishly.

“We who cannot go and fight for dear America--for the high mountains
and the broad rivers and the cheerful towns, and the big, strong,
generous people whom we love as our own heart’s blood--we’ll do our
part here with a rush and a good-will like an irresistible flood; we’ll
buy this Liberty Loan with a surplus over, that will be like a great
shout to Germany that America will take care of her own--that America
is going to win!”

The thrilling young voice stopped, and for a second there was silence,
and then the audience burst into a storm of clapping and applause, and
with that they broke ranks and began crowding about the men who had
come in the car with the two Mannerings, the workers.

“I want a bond--I want two--I’ve got to stick in a bond to build that
wall,” the men were saying over each other’s shoulders.

Eric, flushed, happy, watched them and shook hands with them, and
introduced them to his little sister, and both enjoyed every moment of
the scene with the hot, happy, pulsing blood which real living brings.

“Honor, you never sang like that before,” the boy said, and Honor
laughed.

“You don’t know yet what your tame prima donna can do,” she answered
easily.

“Do you want to go with me to-morrow?” Eric asked.

Day after day Eric spoke, working far into the nights to make time for
this work which he offered to his country instead of the body which
he might not offer. And it came to be that on most days Mr. Barron’s
secretary went with him, Mr. Barron sending her gladly for the cause,
to sing patriotic songs. The two were soon a feature of the Liberty
Loan campaign, and booked for all their time. Meetings at great
factories, meetings in large schools, meetings in country towns where
farmers must be aroused to the importance of their savings for Uncle
Sam’s safety--many sorts of meetings heard Eric speak and Honor sing,
and always the two were a success. Always there was, in their wake, an
uncommon sale of Liberty Bonds.

So it happened that on a Saturday the committee sent Eric to speak
at the Lynden Knitting Mill. The girl drove with her brother and
the three other men, the “workers,” across the city and down into
the manufacturing district, and the car slid to a stop before a
large square brick building. They went up steps and into a hall-way,
and wound through ten-foot piles of boxes to a glassed-in office,
where were the “boss” and other unexplained officials, and a girl
stenographer or two, lifting their heads to regard this other girl,
who sang. She was beginning to be known for her singing, her work with
her brother; the papers spoke of her when they reported Eric’s speeches.

Shortly they were taken through mountainous piles of more boxes, and
more, through lanes in a dark ware-room, lanes between piled-up boxes,
around corners of boxes, into a great place of mysterious machinery,
with a large open space. Along the sides of this space and among
the machines--which were stopped--stood girls, girls, girls, the
factory-hands. Eric and his party, behind the manager, marched between
the lines of girls and came to a manner of stage, although in truth
it was only a part of the floor, with half a dozen chairs for the
visitors. The girl and the “workers”--the men who were to explain and
try to sell the bonds, after Eric’s speech--sat down in the chairs,
and the manager said a few words to his employees, while Eric stood
by, flushed, breathless as always with the excitement of his coming
speech. Then the manager stepped back and Eric spoke, with his voice,
his glance of a comrade.

“I think before I begin that we might all like to sing a verse of a
song which we love,” and he turned to the girl.

She had been staring at these other girls, two hundred of them, and
her heart was beating oddly. She understood what she was there to
do--to stir up emotion in this young, pathetic company, so that her
brother’s speech might have quicker and stronger appeal. For a moment
she shrank--how could she help to wring money from these? She had heard
the men in the office saying that most of them earned five and six
dollars a week. To ask them to save a dollar a week! Then it flashed to
her that it was for their good; it was not begging their money--it was
giving them a chance to invest it safely. Swiftly she was on her feet,
and the lovely, untired voice floated out among the silent engineers
and the tired mill-hands.

    “My country, ’tis of thee--
    Sweet land of liberty--”

The two hundred girls, with their worn young faces, with their pitiful
efforts at finery, cheap, light-colored shoes that meant heart’s blood,
slimsy dresses, cut in a far-off imitation of millionaires’ daughters’
dresses--they listened to the girl’s voice, hypnotized. Discouraged
faces brightened, defiant eyes softened; Eric Mannering was indeed
doing a wise thing to send his sister’s voice as a messenger to prepare
his way.

Then, coming forward with the one or two halting steps which,
unknowingly, did so much to open the way to the hearts of his
audiences, he spoke. He caught his listeners at an emotional moment
and held them there. He said much the same things always, but always
with the instinctive fitting of the phrase to the people, which is the
gift of a born speaker. And he ended when it was quite clear that the
Liberty Loan was no charity but a great chance for good business, with
an appeal to patriotism.

“I know you haven’t much money,” he said. “I know it’s hard to make
both ends meet; and you save and pinch already. But everybody here can
give up something--that thing you’ve been planning to do and saving
to do, the thing you want to do a lot. I ask you to give up that for
this country of ours--of our very own--which is in danger--which
needs you--needs you--and you. Don’t do it just because it’s a good
investment--though it is the best investment in the whole world to-day,
to lend your savings to America. But do it also for this--because you
love your country and want to help her keep free; do it because the
whole land stands in peril of a thing more terrible than can be said,
and you’re brave enough to want to lift your hand with your countrymen
to ward off this danger. Do it because you want to be able to say to
your children, years from now, when the world is safe for freedom: ‘_I_
helped make the world safe. _I_ stood by America when she needed me.
_I_ bought a Liberty Bond,’” Eric turned suddenly, shaken by his own
strong feeling, and met his sister’s eyes, and it was as if he had said
the words to her.

Honor did not sleep much that night. Over and over she whispered in
the darkness her brother’s words, “_I_ helped make the world safe. _I_
stood by America when she needed me. _I_ bought a Liberty Bond,” and
closer and closer drew the spell which the words threw about her. How
would it be when a day came that children of hers gathered around
to ask questions of the great time when half the world battled for
democracy, for freedom? How would it be when one said:

“And you, mother? You did your bit? You helped the country with all
that you were, and all that you had?” How would it be with her that day
if her eyes might not meet questioning young eyes?

The girl was tenacious of a purpose; she had promised herself not to be
carried away by oratory and the excitement in the air. She knew what
she wanted; she had thought out her plan. She had lived for it these
two years; it was her work, her affair. The rich could give millions to
the Liberty Loan. Why should she sacrifice her hard-earned all when
it meant so much to her, and would mean so very little to the country?
Only fifteen hundred dollars! Fifteen one-hundred-dollar bonds! How
much would that help? Not the firing of a big gun twice! And to her it
was her future. If her voice was not trained now it would soon be too
late. Let the rich do it--they could buy thousands of bonds and not
suffer. Let the rich do it. Daylight was seeping in at the window when
she fell asleep with that thought.

But the tide of battle was turned. Possibly most of the fights of
humanity are decided two generations or more before one arrives on
the field. The powers of inheritance and of tradition are strong and
cumulative. The girl had said that she did not belong to her family,
yet to-day when the country needed its children, blood asserted itself
in her veins as the very blood of an American five generations ago
who had fought and died for the thirteen colonies at King’s Mountain;
of a woman, a girl, who about the same time had put her two babies
behind her and fired steadily on the Indians at Cherry Valley; of two
young great-uncles who had fallen, one on each side, for the right
as each saw it, at the first Bull Run; of the great-grandfather who
had sacrificed his waning strength to be a war governor, and the
grandfather who had left this Garden Court which he loved, because the
country needed him at a foreign post. Whether she willed it or not
patriotism was in the girl’s blood, and while she steeled herself
against its upsetting influence, that slow-rolling flood of tradition
and inheritance which had shaped her was, subconsciously, shaping her
still. Forces of good are strong as well as forces of evil, and the
habit of one generation is the inborn tendency of another.

“Eric, are you speaking anywhere in civilization this week?” inquired
his father. “If it isn’t too colossal an effort, I’d like to hear you.”

The two tall, handsome men, alike in build and feature, sharply
different in expression, sat of another June Sunday morning, in wicker
chairs, smoking tranquilly, in the rose-garden. The Dorothy Perkins
lattice was a bit more broken, the gravelled walks a bit greener with
weeds, the aspect around a bit more neglected than two years ago.
About the garden moved as before the tall, thin figure in a white
frock, swinging a basket, piling into the basket masses of red and
pink. She came and stood before them at the sentence as a bird might
halt in its careless flight.

“Do, beautiful one,” she urged. “He makes a dream of a speech, and
you’d be proud. You might even buy Liberty Bonds--you might. Everybody
loosens up and buys bonds when Eric stands there and turns on his
winning way.”

Mannering’s sarcastic, easy smile came before his slow words. “I? Buy
bonds? With what? I haven’t money to be patriotic.”

“Oh, yes,” the girl threw at him like a random arrow. “Eric tells ’em
that everybody can give up something and get bonds. Now, Cousin Alured
sends you a thousand for your vacation in Newport. You could give that
to your country for once. Why not?” Mannering’s weak mouth set. His
manner of high-bred indifference flushed to what was as near excitement
as one often saw him in. “Not by a long shot. Sacrifice my one luxury
of the year! You’re a saucy young devil, Honor. My word! What are you
giving up, who are so free with suggestions? The bank-account that’s
to turn you into a prima donna? Come--we’ll bargain. I’ll buy Liberty
Bonds with my check from Alured Mannering, which is due next week,
if you’ll draw that fifteen hundred of yours and use it for the same
purpose.”

Mannering, startled for once to indignation by the daring hand on his
most precious self-indulgence, yet believed himself quite safe. But he
had reckoned without the host of past-and-gone influences which made
up a part of that complicated mixture, his daughter. He had forgotten
the revolutionary soldier and the Indian fighting-woman, and those
others who lived in her. The tall girl, standing before the heavy,
handsome man lolling in his deep chair, smoking lazily, smiling at her
triumphantly through half-closed eyelids, stared at her father. The
color as she stared went out of her face and left it pale. Then she
spoke one word in a queer, wooden voice.

“Done,” said Honor Mannering, and put out her hand.

The cigar dropped from Mannering’s fingers. “Nonsense!” he said,
and did not stoop to pick it up. “Why, it’s a joke, Honor. Don’t be
melodramatic.”

“It’s not a joke. You said ‘we’ll bargain.’ You stated your bargain and
I agreed. I mean it. If you’re a man you’ll keep your word. It’s a debt
of honor.” The hand was still held out.

Mannering, his armor of indifference stripped, gazed at her horrified,
and knew that he must indeed keep his word. For there were a few things
sound yet in Eric Mannering’s flabby code, and the girl’s finger was on
one. He stood up, and the gods and his ancestors gave him grace to put
out his own hand. “You have me, Miss Mannering,” and he smiled again
lazily. “Done.” He gripped the girl’s hand savagely, and turned and
walked into the house.

“Honor, what kind of an apple-cart have you upset now?” her brother
demanded, stepping to her with his uneven gait.

She smiled at him, white still. “Did you see? Wasn’t he gorgeous? It
was hard as death--but he wouldn’t--betray--the Mannering word. Oh,
Eric, it _is_ good to feel proud of him,” and she finished under her
breath--“for once.”

“It _is_,” Eric agreed soberly. “It will make over his life to help
the country, like the others--grandfather and such. I can’t see how
you dared dream--” And then he caught her by the shoulder. “But,
Honor--you’ve thrown away--your career.” He gripped her so that it
hurt. She swayed a bit, standing facing him, looking into his eyes
almost on a level.

“Don’t you suppose--I realize?” She gasped the words. “It’s been
coming--I’ve been--fighting against it. I--I love--my country.”

With that she slid from his hand and tumbled in a heap, and the
pink and red roses splashed about her. “Oh, Eric--Oh, you’re such
a donkey--” she sobbed, with her face in her hands. “Listening to
you--your speeches--going right to my heart--these weeks! Oh--you
idiot, don’t pull my hair down! And me just human. What did you think
I was--cold boiled fish? Oh, Eric--I adore you so--and that voice
of yours gets right through--everything. Selfishness, and ambition,
and--and piggishness--it’s all no use. You’re such a--a horrid saint.
I _have_ to--do as you say. And Eric--darling old Eric--it’s mostly on
account of my children, anyhow.”

“Your children!” the astounded Eric managed to put in there, and both
went off into shrieks of mad laughter.

“You _awful_ stupid,” the girl sobbed through laughing. “You
said--they’d ask what we’d done--to make the world safe--to help
America. And I won’t have any upstarts of children--taunting me--that
I--I didn’t buy Liberty Bonds. So--so I’m going to put in every
penny--and then I’ll throw it in their old teeth--and I hope it’ll
break ’em.”

“Honor,” spoke young Eric, and caught his breath to speak. “Honor,
you’re the sweetest and finest thing in the world, and I’m prouder to
be your brother than of anything on earth.” And Honor knew that no
voice to come in life would ever sound sweeter in her ears than her
brother’s as he said the words.

Later, when the two had taken in hand the new situation, Eric, his arm
about his sister’s shoulders, sitting beside her on the grass of the
old garden, spoke. “There’s a thing I want to tell you, Honor, but I
hate to for fear it may bother you.”

“What?”

“McIvor is coming.”

“Here?--McIvor? _The_ McIvor?”

“Yes, to finish up the Liberty Loan campaign. He’s to sing in St.
Margaret’s Square, in the open, the night of the 27th. It’s thought his
voice will be worth a hundred thousand of subscriptions.”

Honor began sucking her thumb violently; the boy had seen her do
that in moments of stress from baby-hood. Then she suddenly stopped
and whistled. “Whew! I hate it like anything--his coming. He said I
wouldn’t get anywhere, and I haven’t. It’s two years. And now I won’t
ever. Well--likely he won’t remember a word about me. But I want to
hear him. Can you get me a place, Eric?”

“You bet I can,” pronounced Eric. “I’m the chairman of the committee on
arrangements, and if you don’t have the best seat in the whole blamed
show, I’ll eat my hat. Mr. Barron had me made chairman--he’s getting
McIvor to come, of course.”

“The old fox,” commented Honor. “And never peeped to me.”

“’Fraid you’d be sore, and it might put you off singing for meetings,”
explained Eric.

“Men are silly,” Honor reflected as to that. “McIvor was right and I’m
wrong, but does Mr. Barron think I can’t take my medicine, I wonder?”

“You’re a game sport, Honor, besides being a peach of a girl, and I’m
certain you’ll be the best singer on earth yet. That’s what,” Eric
assured her impressively.

Saturday night, in early June, came off warm and clear, and the square
where towered the court-house and the cathedral and the library was
turned into an out-of-doors auditorium, streaming with the colors of
the Allies. A platform gay with flags stretched across the huge,
pillared, gray stone of the court-house, and down in front of it were
two thousand seats. From every side streets led into the square; these
spaces, it was hoped, would also fill with people, drawn by the famous
singer, and inspired by his singing to subscribe to the Liberty Loan.
The arrangements had been worked out in every detail, so that the
sequence slipped like oiled machinery. At seven o’clock Henry Barron
went to the train at the head of a committee to meet the great man.

“It’s too good to be true, Mac,” said Barron, seizing the big figure
stepping from the Pullman car. “It’s wonderful of you to help us----”

“In the name of mercy, Henry, shut up,” answered McIvor, and Mr. Barron
and the committee behind him jumped and stood horror-struck. For the
cryptic words that came from the singer, the star, the reliance of the
whole meeting, came in a hoarse wheeze.

“Mac--damn you--” pleaded Barron, hot and cold all over.

And McIvor responded grimly: “It’s so. Had a tickle in the wretched
throat when I started, and the whole tunnel caved in on the train. Take
me to Dr. Thomas, quick. Maybe the man works miracles. It’s the only
chance. The Lord He knows how sorry I am.”

A mad car sped to the specialist, and the specialist did what science
might--but a miracle did not happen. And the two thousand seats were
filled, and the seven streets which led into the square were filling
with an ever-swelling crowd eager to hear the glorious voice of the
musician fling “America” to the winds of heaven, freely and without
price, and for love of a great country and the cause of humanity. So it
stood when the musician arrived on the platform.

Flags painted the evening breeze; electric lights caught the colors,
and multiplied, with long rays and long dancing shadows, the flags
and the thronging multitude. There was a hum of contented voices
through the square. The town was jubilant; things had gone well; it
was the greatest occasion for years; no other city could boast such an
ending as this to its liberty campaign--to have McIvor himself journey
to them to give his voice for the cause! The six million of their
allotment would be raised--McIvor’s voice was worth six million in
itself. And still the crowd came, and when McIvor, muffled, appeared
on the platform, everybody in the crowd recognized him, even across
the uncertain lights and shadows and the waving flags and the moving
branches of the elms of the square. Applause broke tumultuously from
the amphitheatre of seats, from the shifting fringe outside, from far
down converging streets.

McIvor stepped sharply forward and bowed once, and then, before the
clapping ended, had turned and was talking to Mr. Barron, to Eric
Mannering, the chairman of the committee on arrangements.

“It’s damnable,” he whispered. “You’ll have to tell them, Mr.
Mannering. I hoped it might come back up to now, but it’s well gone. I
can think of but one possible thing to do. If there’s a person in sight
who can turn a tune and make a noise, fetch him up--and I’ll stand
beside him and wish luck on him--if I can. It’s all I can do now,” and
he coughed through the words.

Eric, thunderstruck, stood bewildered. What could one do? McIvor was
particularly all the show. How might any other man substitute for him?
One could make a speech and explain the disaster and send the workers
about to get what money they could from a disappointed crowd, and then
one could let the crowd go home. What else? Suddenly, as his eyes
stared helplessly into the rows of people, he met Honor’s clear gray
gaze lifted. She had got a front seat as he had promised. There she
was, twenty feet from him. Eric swung about.

“Mr. McIvor,” he stammered, “you’ll think me presuming likely, but--my
sister sings. She’s young, but she has a big voice.”

McIvor’s eyebrows drew together, considering. The great man had
forgotten an incident two years back. Yet “any port in a storm.” “Bring
her,” he coughed, and in half a minute Eric was down in the audience,
bending over a startled girl. Henry Barron, as the brother and sister
made their way to the stage, went to the singer and the two spoke
together a moment. The singer looked curiously at the young girl as she
came to him.

Behind palms on the stage they wrapped the tall figure in a flag,
and she walked forth, another flag in her hand, a young Goddess of
Liberty, lovely enough in the swaying, dreamy lights and shadows, with
her fair hair loose, for any country’s ideal. Mr. Barron told the
townspeople briefly of Mr. McIvor’s illness, and begged their kindness
for his understudy. The people, after a moment’s startled silence, were
gracious in their disappointment, and clapped, not over-heartily, with
friendliness the still young figure standing at McIvor’s side. The band
began softly, suggesting the air.

Then a sudden volume of sound soared effortless above the instruments
and flowed across the packed square, out through the June evening and
out through the flags and overhanging branches of the trees. The
audience, astonished, forgot to breathe. Had this voice gone about
among them, unknown? Eric, listening, thought that he had never before
heard his sister sing at all. And the girl singing, singing from
something within her that flamed and ached and triumphed, did not know
that she lived, was only a voice set there to pour out love of country
and sacrifice and unending devotion.

    “My country, ’tis of thee,
    Sweet land of liberty,
    Of thee I sing!”

With a swing as of one movement every person in the great place was
standing, and with the second stanza more than three thousand voices
emptied, as mountain-streams empty into a river, into the flood of the
young, tremendous voice.

The strong melody ended and there was silence. In a second Honor was
a shy girl again. Had she done well or ill? Anxiously she turned to
McIvor at her side. No syllable had come from him, and as she looked
she saw that tears were frankly running down his cheeks. He stared at
her a second. “Bairn, ye’ve found your soul,” he said, and bent and
kissed her hand. And with that, the mass of people burst into a storm.

After a while they quieted, and Barron, smiling, stepped up beside
the girl. “Mr. McIvor wishes me to tell you,” he said, and the crowd,
sobbing, laughing, held its breath to listen--“Mr. McIvor wishes me
to tell you that he thanks God for his sore throat, which made it
possible for him to hear one of the great voices of the world.”

The girl’s eyes opened. What was this? Was it McIvor? Was she dreaming
these impossible words? She stared at her brother, who was close to
her, now, looking at her with a face she had never seen before.

“Eric!”

And McIvor growled roughly: “Let my angel alone, Mr. Mannering. She’ll
gang her ain gait now, and I’ll help her. Bairn, sing ‘The Star
Spangled Banner’? It’s for liberty--for America--sing!”

Into a hush ten thousand deep she sang, and the audience swayed as it
stood, and then rolled into the chorus, lost in the huge psychical
storm which that young, innocent, great voice created. McIvor reached
for a chair and dropped at the girl’s side, and put his head into his
hands and shuddered with emotion, complex machinery of nerves and
temperament that he was. But the wonderful voice rang on.

    “Oh, long may it wave,”

the young voice sang, and Honor shot up the flag which she held--

    “Long may it wave
    O’er the land of the free and the home of the brave.”

There was, perhaps, no heart in the great place so tired, so dead,
that it did not lift as on wings to the words and the voice. The
workers were among the shaken people before the great moment ended. The
workers themselves were shaken, all but crying.

“It’s for the flag, for liberty--it’s the Liberty Loan itself. Now’s
the time if you love your country.”

Such things the men said as they passed the paper pledges about, things
such as they had never said before. And the pledges came back, filled
out generously, like leaves in a gale.

McIvor came to the girl as she sat, stupefied, at the back of the
stage. “Once more, child. It’s the six million sure now, and we’ll get
some over,” he said. “I’ve just heard about your bonds, your money--how
you offered up your career for your country. And--and--” Honor,
flushing, half angry at Eric who had told family secrets, forgave her
brother because of that catch in McIvor’s words, and because she knew
that it was not the sore throat which choked him then. “Ye’re goin’
to hae an education and a future--ye’re goin’ to learn to sing as no
American ever sang before. Ye do now,” stated McIvor recklessly. “Put
that thought in your pipe, and now get up, bairn, and gie ’em ‘The
Battle Hymn of the Republic,’ while they’re signing away their souls.
Sing it as if ye were singing the Germans out of New York harbor--as
if ye were singing glory to your country and eternal peace into the
universe.”

With a spring she was on her feet and standing close at the edge of the
platform. The orchestra, at a word, played the notes that were needed:

    “Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord.”

The magnificent words with their rhythm of marching armies rolled out
in the fresh, tremendous tones with the new-born soul in them, with a
throb in them not to be described. The voice gathered the overwrought
people into one person--one person who signed pledges as they came, and
rejoiced to sacrifice and to renounce for the dear country, the beloved
country--great America.

    “In the beauty of the lilies Christ was born across the sea--
    With a glory in his bosom that transfigures you and me.
    Since He died to make men holy, let us die to make men free,
    For his truth goes marching on.”

And in the depths of each human being in the great square, each one
knew, as we all know, that through dangers and sufferings that may be
coming, America is safe--humanity is safe with America. Not sorrow or
poverty or death is too high a price for American men and women to pay
to safeguard liberty, and the truth indeed is marching on.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HER COUNTRY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
